eat right exercise don't watch
too much TV keep your brain
healthy don't smoke don't drink
too much don't drink too little
advice for prolonging life it's
everywhere but maybe you're not
living wrong you're just living
in the wrong place
sup cotton-top wannabes trace
here for dnews getting older is
inevitable and in some places
the drudgery of aging is as
apparent as great clouds rolling
over a sunny day but that is not
always the case in his 2011 book
the Blue Zone Dan Buettner used
census data to find the regions
of the world where people live
the longest Okinawa Japan
sardinia italy Loma Linda
California the Nicoya Peninsula
in costa rica he called these
areas Blue Zones living in each
of these zones have mysterious
benefits Okinawa boasts the
longest disability free life
expectancy and the nicoya
peninsula residents have four
times the chance of reaching age
90 than the average American the
research is a collection of case
studies on these areas but
according to an indian journal
Community Medicine review all
four of these geographically
disparate zones have common
threads the big takeaways low
intensity physical activity
building good relationships
eating a diet later on meat and
excess calories and heavier on
plants and finding a purpose for
and sense of meaning in your
life
the lifestyles in each of the
areas for senior citizens to
live in such a way that they got
all of these benefits for
example buettner told NPR
Okinawans sat on the floor
Sardinians live in vertical
houses etc keeping these people
mildly active all the time
okinawans eat 300 grams of
vegetables a day and practice
something called hara hachi
booth they never eat more than
eighty percent full and each
group keeps up their involvement
in their community that's really
important
the Sardinians value advice and
regular communication with their
elders and even the little
things matter like Costa Ricans
build a garden year after year
giving structure purpose and
meaning to their lives
not everyone in Blue Zones run
marathons or hit the gym every
day but they do maintain this
low-level healthy lifestyle with
activity and social involvement
and tons of scientific studies
support that strategy honestly
it sounds kind of lovely but
come on where's the hard science
firstly diets with low levels of
meat intake and high levels of
vegetables are all supported by
tons of research as the
healthiest choices but you
should also eat nuts berries and
some complex carbs the
Mediterranean diet practice by
the Sardinians is exactly that
and studies show it decreases
instances of cardiovascular
disease and cancer and increases
longevity but it's not just diet
according to a review in science
study after study finds people
who are happier live longer and
have better health in one people
who were happier lived almost
seven years longer and
presumably they were happier to
do so and staying happy is
heavily connected to our social
well-being a meta study in plos
medicine of 308,000 people found
relationships with friends help
us deal with stress encourage
healthy behaviors influence us
to take better care of ourselves
and provide meaning to our lives
and that the study found had a
measurable effect on longevity
separately studies of the
Okinawan specifically found a
rare genetic phenotype exist
there at twice the rate of other
populations these genes may
affect cardiovascular functions
insulin signaling immuno
inflammatory response and stress
resistance dramatically
increasing their longevity as
well study throughout scientific
literature find that living like
these people can help all humans
create long happy lives and
they've shown that longevity is
a combination of genetic social
and environmental factors .
being you don't have to live in
these places to get these
benefits the thing is we can't
live forever
you want to know more about how
and why we can't live forever
make sure you watch this video
all about that were born with
about 20,000 stem cells to do
this job over time those cells
mutate because telomeres but
just like in x-men mutations can
be there good or bad sometimes
we get a good sell other times
we get cancer
what do you guys think would you
move to a blue zone to add seven
years to your life
let us know down in the comments
keep coming back here every day
for more dnews make sure you
subscribe i'll see you next time